README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <h1 align="center">Angular Export To Csv</h1>
  <p align="center">Advanced, customizable, Optimized ,Minimal, light-weight Angular ratings.</p>
</p>

[![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/ngx-bar-rating.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/rm-ng-export-to-csv)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)](https://github.com/malikrajat/rm-ng-export-to-csv)

___


# rm-ng-export-to-csv

`rm-ng-export-to-csv` is a lightweight, dependency-free Angular library that enables developers to **export JSON data as CSV** files with just one function call. This library is designed to be highly customizable, performant, tree-shakable, and works seamlessly across all major platforms and browsers.

✅ Supports custom CSV headers <br/>
✅ Compatible with all major browsers (Chrome, Firefox, Safari, Edge, iOS, Android) <br/>
✅ Mobile & tablet friendly <br/>
✅ Zero dependencies <br/>
✅ Tree-shakable and optimized for Angular CLI builds <br/>
✅ Ideal for chart libraries like Chart.js, Plotly, ApexCharts, and more <br/>

---

## 📦 Installation

Install the library via npm:

```bash
  npm install rm-ng-export-to-csv --save
```

Ensure your Angular version is 14 or higher.

[//]: # (---)

[//]: # ()
[//]: # (## 🚀 Live DEMO)

[//]: # ()
[//]: # ([See the implementation here]&#40;https://stackblitz.com/edit/stackblitz-starters-vzwa4w&#41;)

---

## 🔧 Usage

### Step 1: Import the Service

```ts
import { RmNgExportToCsvService } from 'rm-ng-export-to-csv';
```

### Step 2: Inject into your Component or Service

```ts
constructor(private exportCsv: RmNgExportToCsvService) {}

OR

private readonly exportCsv: RmNgExportToCsvService = inject(RmNgExportToCsvService);

```

### Step 3: Export with Default Headers

```ts
const data = [
  { name: 'Alice', age: 28, city: 'New York' },
  { name: 'Bob', age: 35, city: 'Chicago' }
];

this.exportCsv.exportAsCSV(data, 'users.csv');
```

### Step 4: Export with Custom Headers and Mapping

```ts
const data = [
  { name: 'Alice', age: 28, city: 'New York' },
  { name: 'Bob', age: 35, city: 'Chicago' }
];

const headers = [
  { label: 'Full Name', key: 'name' },
  { label: 'Age (Years)', key: 'age' },
  { label: 'City', key: 'city' }
];

this.exportCsv.exportAsCSV(data, 'users.csv', headers);
```

---

### 📜 Version Mapping

| Version | Ng   |
|---------|------|
| 1.x.x   | 18.x |

---

## 🧪 API Reference

### `exportAsCSV(data, filename?, headers?)`

| Parameter  | Type                    | Required | Description                               |
| ---------- | ----------------------- | -------- | ----------------------------------------- |
| `data`     | `Record<string, any>[]` | ✅        | JSON data array to export                 |
| `filename` | `string`                | ❌        | Optional filename (default: `export.csv`) |
| `headers`  | `CsvHeaderMapping[]`    | ❌        | Optional mapping of labels and keys       |

### `CsvHeaderMapping` Interface

```ts
interface CsvHeaderMapping {
  label: string; // Column name in the CSV file
  key: string;   // Corresponding key in the JSON data
}
```

---

## 🚀 Features

* ✅ Export any JSON array to CSV
* ✅ Customizable column headers
* ✅ Column-to-key mapping support
* ✅ Auto-download in all browsers (desktop and mobile)
* ✅ Compatible with Angular CLI and Nx
* ✅ Small bundle size, no runtime dependencies
* ✅ Fully typed and framework-compliant

---

## 🌐 Browser Compatibility

Tested on the latest versions of:

* ✅ Google Chrome
* ✅ Mozilla Firefox
* ✅ Apple Safari (macOS and iOS)
* ✅ Microsoft Edge
* ✅ Android Chrome Browser
* ✅ iOS Safari on iPhone & iPad

Supports both desktop and mobile auto-download behavior.

---

## 📄 License

MIT License. Feel free to use, modify, and contribute.

---

## 🐞 Issues

If you identify any errors in this component, or have an idea for an improvement, please open
an [issue](https://github.com/malikrajat/rm-ng-export-to-csv/issues). I am excited to see what the community thinks of this
project, and I would love your input!

---

## 👤 Author

**Rajat Malik**
- [github/malikrajat](https://github.com/malikrajat)

---

## 🙌 Contributions

Contributions are welcome! If you have ideas, suggestions, or improvements, feel free to open issues or pull requests.

---

## 📌 Coming Soon

* XLSX export support
* Flattening nested JSON structures
* Column filtering and ordering
* Internationalization (i18n) support for headers
* UI component to preview before export

Commit message:

Update for Angular 19 compatibility and bump to v2.0.0
Updated Angular peer dependencies to support Angular 19, regenerated build artifacts for Angular 19 compatibility, and incremented the package version to 2.0.0. Also updated the README to reflect Angular 19 support and added a note encouraging users to star the project.

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <h1 align="center">Angular Export To Csv</h1>
  <p align="center">Advanced, customizable, Optimized ,Minimal, light-weight Angular ratings.</p>
</p>

[![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/ngx-bar-rating.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/rm-ng-export-to-csv)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)](https://github.com/malikrajat/rm-ng-export-to-csv)

___


# rm-ng-export-to-csv

`rm-ng-export-to-csv` is a lightweight, dependency-free Angular library that enables developers to **export JSON data as CSV** files with just one function call. This library is designed to be highly customizable, performant, tree-shakable, and works seamlessly across all major platforms and browsers.

If you like this plugin, please give it a star ⭐.

✅ Supports custom CSV headers <br/>
✅ Compatible with all major browsers (Chrome, Firefox, Safari, Edge, iOS, Android) <br/>
✅ Mobile & tablet friendly <br/>
✅ Zero dependencies <br/>
✅ Tree-shakable and optimized for Angular CLI builds <br/>
✅ Ideal for chart libraries like Chart.js, Plotly, ApexCharts, and more <br/>

---

## 📦 Installation

Install the library via npm:

```bash
  npm install rm-ng-export-to-csv --save
```

Ensure your Angular version is 14 or higher.

[//]: # (---)

[//]: # ()
[//]: # (## 🚀 Live DEMO)

[//]: # ()
[//]: # ([See the implementation here]&#40;https://stackblitz.com/edit/stackblitz-starters-vzwa4w&#41;)

---

## 🔧 Usage

### Step 1: Import the Service

```ts
import { RmNgExportToCsvService } from 'rm-ng-export-to-csv';
```

### Step 2: Inject into your Component or Service

```ts
constructor(private exportCsv: RmNgExportToCsvService) {}

OR

private readonly exportCsv: RmNgExportToCsvService = inject(RmNgExportToCsvService);

```

### Step 3: Export with Default Headers

```ts
const data = [
  { name: 'Alice', age: 28, city: 'New York' },
  { name: 'Bob', age: 35, city: 'Chicago' }
];

this.exportCsv.exportAsCSV(data, 'users.csv');
```

### Step 4: Export with Custom Headers and Mapping

```ts
const data = [
  { name: 'Alice', age: 28, city: 'New York' },
  { name: 'Bob', age: 35, city: 'Chicago' }
];

const headers = [
  { label: 'Full Name', key: 'name' },
  { label: 'Age (Years)', key: 'age' },
  { label: 'City', key: 'city' }
];

this.exportCsv.exportAsCSV(data, 'users.csv', headers);
```

---

### 📜 Version Mapping

| Version | Ng   |
|---------|------|
| 1.x.x   | 18.x |
| 2.x.x   | 19.x |

---

## 🧪 API Reference

### `exportAsCSV(data, filename?, headers?)`

| Parameter  | Type                    | Required | Description                               |
| ---------- | ----------------------- | -------- | ----------------------------------------- |
| `data`     | `Record<string, any>[]` | ✅        | JSON data array to export                 |
| `filename` | `string`                | ❌        | Optional filename (default: `export.csv`) |
| `headers`  | `CsvHeaderMapping[]`    | ❌        | Optional mapping of labels and keys       |

### `CsvHeaderMapping` Interface

```ts
interface CsvHeaderMapping {
  label: string; // Column name in the CSV file
  key: string;   // Corresponding key in the JSON data
}
```

---

## 🚀 Features

* ✅ Export any JSON array to CSV
* ✅ Customizable column headers
* ✅ Column-to-key mapping support
* ✅ Auto-download in all browsers (desktop and mobile)
* ✅ Compatible with Angular CLI and Nx
* ✅ Small bundle size, no runtime dependencies
* ✅ Fully typed and framework-compliant

---

## 🌐 Browser Compatibility

Tested on the latest versions of:

* ✅ Google Chrome
* ✅ Mozilla Firefox
* ✅ Apple Safari (macOS and iOS)
* ✅ Microsoft Edge
* ✅ Android Chrome Browser
* ✅ iOS Safari on iPhone & iPad

Supports both desktop and mobile auto-download behavior.

---

## 📄 License

MIT License. Feel free to use, modify, and contribute.

---

## 🐞 Issues

If you identify any errors in this component, or have an idea for an improvement, please open
an [issue](https://github.com/malikrajat/rm-ng-export-to-csv/issues). I am excited to see what the community thinks of this
project, and I would love your input!

---

## 👤 Author

**Rajat Malik**
- [github/malikrajat](https://github.com/malikrajat)

---

## 🙌 Contributions

Contributions are welcome! If you have ideas, suggestions, or improvements, feel free to open issues or pull requests.

---

## 📌 Coming Soon

* XLSX export support
* Flattening nested JSON structures
* Column filtering and ordering
* Internationalization (i18n) support for headers
* UI component to preview before export
